-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about one more Kubernetes core concept, called Deployments.
So we have already seen a Kubernetes cluster
with two worker nodes and two pods
in each worker node, from a replicaset.
So now deployment is going to be superset of replicaset.
Which means replicaset can provide a few features.
And when we call deployment as a superset,
it can provide many, many features for us, okay.
So in addition to what replicaset provides.
So that's about the deployment advantage we have.
and there is no difference in accessing the applications
hosted via replicaset or deployment.
So all, it is going to be using
the service concept in Kubernetes.
So now let's go ahead and then see
what are the deployment features available for us,
or what it provides for us
or for our applications hosted on Kubernetes.
So we can create a deployment to roll out a replicaset.
By default, whenever we create a deployment,
a replicaset it is rolled out.
And updating the deployment.
So whenever we want to change our application version,
update our application version,
we can do the update of the deployment.
When we do this, automatically our version,
whatever we are going to update, it is going to be recorded.
So now using that, we can easily roll back
to our respective older deployment, whatever we want,
because it is maintaining the versions.
Or if you have updated from V1 to V2, V2 to V3,
and then V3 to V4.
And now again, if you want to go back to V2, yes,
you will be able to go
because it maintains the versions, and then version history.
So now we will be also able to scale our deployments.
So how we have done the scaling in replicasets,
in the same way in deployment also, we'll have a tag
of replicas where we can add the number of replicas.
We can add it, or we can use kubectl scale
to scale our deployment.
And we can even pause and resume a deployment.
So in deployment, the core thing here is, like whenever
you apply a change to your deployment,
immediately it will be applied to your pods.
So that is the thing.
So if you want to make multiple changes, then you really
don't want the pods to be recreated,
or terminated and recreated every second for every change.
So you have 10 changes to make to your deployment.
Then pause the deployment and make all the changes,
and then resume the deployment so that all those changes
will be applied to your deployment at a time.
So like this, there are multiple things
we can take an advantage using the deployment.
So whenever you are doing the deployment, you can even
get the rollout status or deployment status.
And there will be something called cleanup policy.
Cleanup policy is nothing but...
So whenever we do the updating of our deployments,
it maintains the rollout version history.
And by default, it maintains
last 10 versions of our application.
So we can go to that respective version using that.
Or we will be able to add more number of versions
by adding additional tag in our YAML manifest
under the spec of the deployment.
We'll see that in the later cases if you want to.
And next thing is canary deployments.
So if we want to add a new version
of our application in the live production traffic,
and the traffic should distribute
with old version and the new version,
still we'll be able to do it using canary deployments.
So all these things are available for us with deployment.
So let's go ahead and then create a simple deployment object
and then expose it as a service,
and then access it via a browser, and then test it once.
After that, again, we'll move on to updating the deployment,
rollbacking the deployment, or pausing and resuming.
All those things we are going to see step-by-step now.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye.
Thank you.